when I talk about the vegan movement
being a failure a lot of people think
I'm speaking at some sort of abstract
philosophical sense or that I'm being a
bit sentimental a bit maudlin or a bit
self-indulgent
the purpose of this video is to show you
really briefly that no I mean this in
the most literal direct sense possible
the movement is a failure the movement
is a disaster and we have some methods
in the social sciences to measure that
to demonstrate that to prove that on a
purely factual basis this is a database
of basically every nonprofit
organization registered in Canada if you
search for the word feminist in this
database look what you get oh okay only
three results so only three
organizations that have the word
feminist in their name in all of Canada
however if I search for the word women's
oh wow okay 593 results so this reflects
the extent to which in 2019 feminism is
a major ongoing political movement so
you know you can even if you just glance
these first few entries and act to end
violence against women associations for
women's rights
there are 593 there were definitely more
than 593 feminist organizations in
Canada but this gives you a snapshot
this gives you an imperfect
cross-section of just a real the level
of organization agitation prep people
getting together and pressing for
political changes now we have to
calibrate this what if we put the word
Jesus into the database and search for
that Oh
401 401 organisations or charities with
Jesus in the name the Christians are
still a big force for social change in
our society I regard that negatively but
that is the reality so you might ask a
hypothetical
how many vegan organizations are there
how much pressure is there how much
impetus that the vegan movement have
compared to the feminist movement or
compared to Christianity right there'll
be an interesting way to calibrate the
question and of course I have a
prejudiced audience but which do you
think is really a more pressing social
political question in our times right
now do you think there's like a
short-term reason why right now this
year people have got to be motivated to
get the message out about Jesus or
people are motivated get the message out
about feminism - say wow right now we
have to get this out compared to the
kind of urgency we have in veganism the
urgency we have to get across the
message about ethics the message about
human health the message about ecology
and yeah to some extent everyday animals
are dying and that sense of wanting to
save animal lives also gives us a sense
of urgency I think we have a much
greater sense of urgency that every
passing day matters every passing year
matters now-now-now we need to save the
environment now we need to stop people
from having heart attacks and getting
cancer now so on and so forth I think we
have a greater sense of urgency than
either feminism or Christianity although
those are certainly long-term
well-established political movements but
of course if you just search for the
word Jesus you're only getting a small
number of the Christian organizations
what if you put in the word Christian
who 2357 and now of course if you really
wanted to get a compendium
list of all of the Christian
organizations in in Canada you'd have to
search for a word like Pentecostal you'd
have to do a little bit more work and
try to you search every possible term
and cross-reference all the lists
eliminate duplicate entries and then
come to a conclusion about just how many
Christian organizations there are in
Canada obviously there are thousands and
in this by the same token the total
number of feminist organizations will be
bigger because some of them will be
using other acronyms or other indirect
ways of indicating that
okay Canada does not have a very large
Arab population Canada also does not
have a very large tradition of Arabic
language education or Arabic studies and
universities a little bit but Canada you
know we're not really a world leader in
these things
how many how many organizations do you
think there are with Arab in the name
which again could be linked to the
teaching of the language could be linked
to the politics of the Arabic world
could be linked to Arab Canadians as
ethnic minority Oh
forty to forty to measure suit number of
Arab people in Canada number of the
level of interest in this very limited
forty to do you think vegans have more
organizations than that you can't they
weren't have more than forty two results
that's pretty pretty pretty humble oh
how about the jib way a jib way you know
I did actually do a more thorough search
for this a jib wedding is spelled more
than one way Anishinaabe is felt more
than one way you do have to search if
you don't the ajooba are a very small
minority within Canada oh but still for
four organizations
okay so let's get to the punchline here
people when you search this database for
the word vegan what you get zero there
are zero registered organizations with
the word vegan anywhere in their name
description Mandy you get one false
result here for the fort done vegan
Historical Society which is just a
coincidence because that happens to be
how the name of it is spelled zero
vegans have come on the internet made a
lot of noise you on YouTube vegans have
protested in front of slaughterhouses
and made a lot of noise on the streets
vegans have opened restaurants and
they've started marketing you know
different types of products like
hamburgers plastic wrap protein drinks
but as a movement as a political
movement we have failed
and the next steps we need to take
towards real political progress we'll
start with a recognition of the depth
and magnitude of that failure